In this lesson, I'll show you how to set up Amazon six and a CRM within WordPress to be able to send
broadcast email directly through the WordPress website.
You'll learn how to enable bounce handling to comply with international spam laws by using the Autonomy
CRM plugin in WordPress and the Amazon Simple Notification Service with a web hook to automatically
convert subscribed contacts to bounced status by the end of this video.
You'll understand how to enable bounce handling so that Amazon six can be used as a broadcast email
provider while maintaining best practices.
Let's take a look at a system that I have that's live that's set up in this more advanced way for broadcast
email.
Now this is set up at leverage WP Dotcom.
You may have received emails or been on my email list that is powered through Autonomy and Amazon a
WC, so I'm able to send broadcast email as well as email automations for when people either join a
particular thing, like the leverage WP sandbox that you may have joined, as well as other things like
courses that I deliver.
I can set up email automations and all of my transactional email, as well as broadcast email is powered
through Amazon six using the Autonomy CRM and the fluent SMTP plug in connecting my outgoing emails.
So I wanted to show you guys around the leverage WP Dot website just a little bit in the background.
In the back end, I should say and show you how you can set this up in the same way for any of your
websites or your client websites.
So I'm here under autonomy, under autonomy settings and in the email tab, you can see that I've just
got basic settings like my from address and my reply to email, but here's my sending limit.
I matched that to what my Amazon see is.
Sending limit is fourteen emails, a second 50000 emails in a 24 hour period.
There's a footer unsubscribe text.
There is standard for adding to my emails that I send out, as well as I've enabled the bounce tracking.
And this is very important to set up in order to make sure that if an email bounces that you stop sending
to that email and that works for complaints as well.
And this is what I'm going to show you how to set up right now with WordPress connecting to Amazon.
So as you remember, I do already have the SMTP or outgoing email setup to work with my Amazon SWC account,
and we've been in this in the previous lesson.
You can see my daily sending quota is 50000 emails and then the send rate is fourteen emails per second.
And you could see that's what I have set down here under sending limits right here in email settings.
Now I have something here when I check this box under bounced tracking, and I selected Amazon six as
my email service.
It gave me a web hook here.
Now, webhook is just a URL that's designed to receive notification, email notification web hooks actually
from an external service, and Amazon allows you to set that up and really to find a more detailed guide
on how to set this up and the way that I've followed.
Setting this up is to go to the Auto NAMI website from the company that that's called build woo funnels
dot com.
They make the autonomy plug in, which is designed to work with with WooCommerce E-commerce and the
Woo Funnels plug in in order to automate certain things like check out abandonment sequences and automated
sequences for after purchase communication with customers and that sort of thing.
And so you can use it for all that, but you can also use it for broadcast email, as I've shown you
a little bit here.
So what I do is I went to the documentation by clicking docs at Build, which funnels dot com, and
I went to the search and I just searched for the word bounce and I clicked this article here, setting
up bounce handling.
Now this particular article goes through bounds handling for a number of different services.
The first one is for Amazon six, which is the outgoing email service that we're using, and it does
show that the the way to do this on the original and previous console that Amazon X used to have now
it looks a little bit different now, but it does all the same things.
And so I'll show you what it looks like now.
So you can even.
Really set up a bounce handling within your Amazon account.
And so I'll go to the, you know, the tutorial here at Build Blue Funnel Scam and need to log in to
your account and you create a topic.
Now this is under Amazon S and S, and you can see that that's not as easy.
Amazon says is this simple notification service, and so we leverage the notification service in order
to have these notifications go out and send a web hook in order to unsubscribe someone.
An email address that has bounced or someone that has complained.
And so it's a great automated system that you want to definitely use to comply with the spam international
spam laws.
And so I have these up here because I favorited.
They is the simple email service is the one that I'm using and then the simple notification service
I have clicked right here.
Now, if you open the services bar here, you'll find that, gosh, there's so much that it can be hard
to hard to find, but it's easy to go up and just search for simple notification.
You can find it right here and you can stop it so it'll appear up in your window right here.
So when Amazon and what you do is there are topics and there are subscriptions and topics, it's something
you've set up that connects to a particular domain that you have verified.
And then subscriptions are what set up the actual web hooks, and this is where you paste in your web
hooks.
And so this is I actually have two in here.
I'm using I'm using both of these are connected to the same webhook because I recently switched from
leverage WP Dot SEO to leverage WP dot com.
That's why I have two, but you only need the one in here.
But following the tutorial, you just have to set up a topic so you would click Create Topic here under
topics on the left.
And if you create a topic, you would do these.
I f oh, and let's see you go down here and under.
It's not a fiasco, actually, but you want to go with a standard and so you would go in and click standard
and then you'd follow the tutorial just to, you know, create a name and then click Create Topic.
That's really all you need to do.
You just do that and create your name so you know what it is, and then you create a new subscription
and you want to assign that subscription to this topic.
So under here, what I would do is let's go back to my topics here and if I create it, if I clicked
one of these topics, I could go down below and click, Create a subscription.
And here's where I have this subscription creator.
But once you click Create a subscription, you need to choose a few things up here select a protocol
and that's an HTP protocol, and it tells you how to do that right here.
You, you create a subscription and you go back to your autonomy settings and you find that webhook.
That's what I showed you down here under bounce tracking.
So you'd go here and you'd copy this or just click copy right here and go back under here.
And once you click HTTPS, as you scroll down here, it'll tell you, Uh, let's see you choose that.
And here we are.
Choose the protocol as HTTPS and then paste the endpoint you URL and click the checkbox for Enable Raw
Message Delivery.
And so you would go in here and you would, I would, you know, paste that webhook and I would enable
there.
And then I would just go down on the bottom and click Create subscription.
Now I'm not going to do that because I already have my subscriptions and topics created that I need
it.
But then once that is in place, then you can.
You can go to the after a few minutes that will show you status confirmed under your subscriptions.
And here it's showing confirmed on both of those because it'll check.
And then you want to go to where you have an email address.
And if you don't already have the email address associated with your website here, your outgoing email
address verified with Amazon, you'll want to do that.
And so let me pause the video here and get to the proper screen under Amazon simple email service.
I went to my verified identities from the side menu over here, and then I selected the orange button
create identity so you would create an email address, and once you enter an email address that you
can receive email at, then you can, you know, it'll you can click Create Identity and it'll send
you a verification email.
You have to be able to open its inbox to open the verification email once you've clicked the verification
link.
Then that email will be verified and you can go in under email addresses and under that verification,
you can open the notifications area here.
And this is the final step before you can go ahead and test your balance and complete notification system.
And so back under a WC, I'm going to pause the video now and go back to my verified email address.
So he went back to verified identities, and I clicked my verified email address.
Now I can go down and click this notifications tab and I can go down under feedback notifications,
where I've said you can set up bounce complaint and delivery.
And because we've already created the essence, topic and subscription, we can go ahead and assign
that to here.
So you would click Edit over here and then you would just pick it the one from the from the dropdown
that you need and you leave original email headers unchecked and you can click no topic for delivery
feedback.
Otherwise, you'll receive an email every single time a bounce go.
An email bounces and so you might not want to do that if you have a larger list.
And so you can just configure those two topics.
And again, this is going.
Following this build, we funnel scrum bounce handling tutorial where it shows you how to set up the
notifications and then you set it with, you know, you uncheck the feedback you don't check include
original headers.
You can email feedback forwarding you want to have on disabled, and that is at one level higher.
I believe in this new.
FWC says screen and under notifications, this is here email feedback forwarding, you can edit that
and leave it at disabled.
Once you've set up your feedback notifications here.
And so following this, the next thing you just you do is just test your settings.
Amazon provides an email address that will bounce and so you can test your settings here.
And so I've already got this email address set up, so I'll go back and under autonomy contacts.
I'll open that contact and I'll pass the video here and do that.
So after I created a contact called Bounce Handler and I put I assigned that simulator Amazon email
address to it, I assigned it as a subscribed person.
Then I sent them a message using my autonomy and my, my automated, you know, fluent SMTP system that's
already set up sent them an email or something like bounce test.
And then I just clicked send, and a few minutes later, I refreshed the page here.
And then this changes from subscribed to bounced.
And now in my system, that subscriber has been changed to bounced, which means that I will not be
able to send to that address in the future, which complies with the international spam laws and is
a best practice for setting up your, you know, broadcast email system.
So now, you know, all I would have to do, I could go to broadcasts and, you know, I could duplicate
one, or I could just click, add new and you know, any time I want to, I can use my CRM here in WordPress
and you know, I can even do a B testing.
You know, I can choose the number of the contacts that I want to send to, whether it's all of them
or, you know, I filter them and then I can open up an email editor that's provided by autonomy, where
it has a lot of great functionality, like pulling in merge tags like a person's first name, last name,
link triggers that I can use.
So if I ask a question like in a poll, Hey, are you interested in the video tutorials or do you more
like to read tutorials with screenshots?
And I click this link for videos and click this link for written tutorials.
And then when they click that link, it will automatically do something in my CRM like tag them so that
I can send them particular content that they are interested in in the future.
You can also save email templates.
It's just a really powerful system that you can use for sending broadcast email through WordPress.
And now I am using my Amazon IWC simple email service for those outgoing group emails, not my WordPress
system.
So I've got a managed IP address and all the power of Amazon behind my broadcast email.
And like I said, it only will cost me if I had 10000 people on my list and I sent them four or five
times a month.
That would cost me less than $5 a month instead of the MailChimp solution for that costs about $100
a month.
So it's a great system and it is really powerful and compliant as far as international spam laws and
bounce and complaint tracking, it's awesome.